============================================================================
Jaguar Developer Weekly            June 21, 1995                 Vol.1, No.1
============================================================================

Hello and Welcome!
------------------
This is the first edition of a brand new Jaguar Developer Newsletter that
will be sent out on a weekly basis to all Jaguar Publishers and developers.

Each week, the Jaguar Developer Weekly will bring you important new
information about updates to the Jaguar Developer's kit tools and
documentation, news about upcoming events such as trade shows and developer
conferences, programming hints and tips, and much more.



How Do You Want It?
-------------------
The primary means of distribution for the Jaguar Developer Weekly will be via
fax.  However, if you prefer, we can send each issue to you via Internet
mail.  To request this, please send an EMAIL message with the text "subscribe
Jaguar Developer Weekly" to "mfulton@atari.com" and we'll add you to the
EMAIL list.

For those developers who have neither a fax machines or Internet mail, we'll
also make each issue available online on the Atari Software Development BBS
and the Jaguar Developer areas of the Atari Gaming forum on the Compuserve
Information Service.



New Graphics Tools
------------------
There are two new graphics tools in the Jaguar Developer's Kit which run
under Microsoft Windows.  The Jaguar Graphics Tool is capable of reading all
popular graphics file formats such as Targa, TIFF, GIF, PCX, Windows BMP, and
more.  Once you've loaded a picture in, you can do basic image manipulation
such as brightness and contrast adjustment or color correction, you can
resize the image, you can run filters to sharpen or soften an image, and
more.  The Jaguar Graphics Tool can convert your images to Jaguar RGB or CRY
color mode and allows you to save your graphics as Madmac source code files
or as linkable raw binary files, or you can automatically call the BPEG
compression tool to save your images in BPEG format.

The Jaguar Artwork Viewer tool allows you to take bitmapped graphics images
copied to the Windows system Clipboard from your favorite Windows graphics
applications such as the Jaguar Graphics Tool, or maybe one of those
lesser-known programs like Adobe Photoshop or Fractal Design Painter, and
view them on the Jaguar.  You can either "Paste" your images individually, or
you can configure the Jaguar Artwork Viewer to be a "Clipboard Viewer"
application that will automatically transfer any graphics to the Jaguar when
they are copied to the Windows clipboard.  Once the image is shown on the
Jaguar, you can adjust the Jaguar's object processor clipping and scaling
parameters, view the image in various RGB or CRY color modes, and so forth.
You can then save your images as either binary data files or Madmac Source
code.

These new graphics tools are available to Jaguar developers online in the
ARTTOOL.ZIP archive.  See the article "Developer Kit Updates" below for
further information.

(Note: the Jaguar Artwork Viewer is a 32-bit application that runs natively
under Windows NT or Windows 95, but which requires WIN32S to run under
Windows 3.11 or earlier.  The WIN32S files are not included, but may be
downloaded from the Microsoft area on Compuserve.  Go to the Microsoft area
and select the software library option.  Search for "WIN32" to locate the
correct file.  If you are not able to obtain WIN32S, please contact Atari
Developer Support for assistance.)



Development Tool Updates
------------------------
The Jaguar Developers Kit tools listed below have been updated in the last
few weeks.  You can download the latest versions from the Atari Software
Development BBS or from the Jaguar Developer library in the Atari Gaming
forum on Compuserve.

Jaguar Artwork Viewer — June 12, 1995.  See the New Graphics Tools article
for more information.  Download the file ARTTOOL.ZIP.

Jaguar Graphics Tool — June 12, 1995.  See the New Graphics Tools article for
more information.  Download the file ARTTOOL.ZIP.

GCC C Compiler — June 12, 1995.  New version corrects a problem with some
comparisons not working properly when generating GPU/DSP code.  Download the
files GCC1.ZIP, GCC2.ZIP, and GCC3.ZIP for the complete package.

New 3D Library — June 13, 1995.  This is a new 3D Graphics library similar to
the original Jaguar 3D library, but faster and with greater flexibility.
Comes with a new utility for converting Autodesk 3D Studio object files into
Jaguar 3D library format.  Download the file JAGLIB.ZIP for the complete
package.

Updated Include Files — June 13, 1995.  The Jaguar standard include files for
the MADMAC Macro Assembler and GCC C compiler have been updated with new
equates for the Jaguar's serial I/O hardware.  Download the file SOURCE.ZIP
for the update.

MIDI Parser — June 1, 1995.  Fixes a problem with MIDI volume control events
not being handled properly.  Download the file MUSICP.ZIP for the MSDOS
version, or STTOOLS.ZIP for the Atari version.



Roadmap To The Developer Kit Archives
-------------------------------------
The programming tools, sample source code, libraries, and other components of
the Jaguar Developers Kit are updated frequently, but not exactly at regular
intervals.  Sometimes the updates come so fast that it can be hard to keep
track of all of them.

To make it easier to figure out what's new, Atari now maintains a "Roadmap"
to the various archives that are available online.  This comes in the form of
an ASCII text file named ROADMAP.TXT that is posted online on the Atari
Software Development BBS and in the Jaguar Developer library in the Atari
Gaming forum on Compuserve.

The ROADMAP.TXT file is updated and reposted whenever any of the standard
distribution archives from the Jaguar Developer's kit is updated.  To find
out what is the latest version of anything, simply read the contents of
ROADMAP.TXT.  There's a description of each group of files contained in each
ZIP archive, along with a list of all the files in that archive, complete
with date, file size, and the complete pathname as specified in the archive.



That's All Folks!
-----------------
That's all for the premiere edition of the Jaguar Developer Weekly.  See you
next time!
