============================================================================
Jaguar Developer Weekly            June 30, 1995                 Vol.1, No.2
============================================================================

MIDI Add-on Board Problem
-------------------------
Due to a schematics error, the MIDI-Add-On Boards already being used by
developers in the field are most likely to lack a modification that is
supposed to decrease likelihood of MIDI data transfer errors.  These errors
occur roughly once every 30kb of data sent with the Jaguar Sound Tool if the
fix is not applied.

The fix is fairly simple, and can probably be done by yourself without
needing to send the board back to Atari.  What you need to do is to add a
4.7k resistor between pin 4 and pin 6 of the PC900 Opto-Coupler component on
the MIDI Add-On board.  This should act to prevent data loss on MIDI transfer
with MIDI capable Alpines.  Please have your technicians apply this fix on
all MIDI Add-On boards you are using which do not already have it.

If you do not have a technician capable of performing this fix, please
contact Atari Jaguar Developer Support to arrange for an exchange.



CD Boot ROM Emulator For Alpine
-------------------------------
Atari now has a new CD Boot ROM emulator that loads into the Alpine board and
emulates the boot process of the Jaguar CD, loading the boot code from the CD
(or the CD emulator running on a Falcon030) and executing it in the same
fashion as if you had created a bootable CD disc.  You can even boot directly
from the CD Emulator!

The CD Boot Emulator program is available online in the CDROM.ZIP archive.
See the enclosed documentation for details about how to use it.



Tool Updates
------------
The Jaguar Developers Kit tools and related files listed below have been
updated in the last few weeks.  You can download the latest versions from the
Atari Software Development BBS or from the Jaguar Developer library in the
Atari Gaming forum on Compuserve.

Jaguar Cinepak Utility — June 30, 1995.  The status display shown during the
various conversion functions has been updated and is now entirely
dialog-based.  Also, the program now displays an error message warning you if
the QuickTime movie you are trying to convert does not use Cinepak for the
video compression.  Download JAGMAC.SEA using MacBinary on the Macintosh, or
download to your PC and use a MacBinary-intelligent utility to transfer the
file to your Macintosh.  Once you get the file to the Mac, JAGMAC.SEA is a
self-extracting archive.

Jaguar Graphics Tool — June 29, 1995.  A problem that caused the ONLINE help
file to not be displayed when "Help" was selected has been fixed.  Download
the file ARTTOOL.ZIP.

New 3D Library — June 13, 1995.  This is a new 3D Graphics library similar to
the original Jaguar 3D library, but faster and with greater flexibility.
Comes with a new utility for converting Autodesk 3D Studio object files into
Jaguar 3D library format.  Download JAGLIB.ZIP for the complete package.

Jaguar Graphics Utility — June 13, 1995.  The TGA2CRY utility has had a
problem with the status display output fixed.  Download file GRAFIK.ZIP.

GCC C Compiler — June 12, 1995.  New version corrects a problem with some
comparisons not working properly when generating GPU/DSP code.  Download the
files GCC1.ZIP, GCC2.ZIP, and GCC3.ZIP for the complete package.



Developer Kit Archive Roadmap
-----------------------------
The programming tools, sample source code, libraries, and other components of
the Jaguar Developers Kit are updated frequently, but not exactly at regular
intervals.  Sometimes the updates come so fast that it can be hard to keep
track of all of them.

To make it easier to figure out what's new, Atari now maintains a "Roadmap"
to the various archives that are available online.  This comes in the form of
an ASCII text file named ROADMAP.TXT that is posted online on the Atari
Software Development BBS and in the Jaguar Developer library in the Atari
Gaming forum on Compuserve.

The ROADMAP.TXT file is updated and reposted whenever any of the standard
distribution archives from the Jaguar Developer's kit is updated.  To find
out what is the latest version of anything, simply read the contents of
ROADMAP.TXT.  There's a description of each group of files contained in each
ZIP archive, along with a list of all the files in that archive, complete
with date, file size, and the complete pathname as specified in the archive.



Delivery Via The Internet
-------------------------
Those developers who request the Jaguar Developer Weekly via the Internet
will receive a ZIP archive each week containing monochrome TIF files with the
exact image of one page each.  Because we will occasionally have some
graphics to go along with the articles, simple text EMAIL won't work.  You
can load the TIF files into a graphics viewer to read online or print them
out.  (This method should be one that most people can handle, but if you have
alternative suggestions, please let us hear them!)

Please keep in mind that Internet mail should be faster and more reliable
than fax.  To subscribe, please send EMAIL with the text "subscribe Jaguar
Developer Weekly" to "mfulton@atari.com" and we'll add you to the EMAIL list.
Compuserve users, don't forget that you can send and receive mail via the
Internet too!  You can send a message to "Internet:mfulton@atari.com" to
subscribe!

