============================================================================
Jaguar Developer Weekly           July 14, 1995                  Vol.1, No.4
============================================================================

Error Recovery for CD Read Operations
-------------------------------------
To retry a CD_read operation that fails (i.e.  the CD_ptr routine returns an
error result) while running in double-speed mode, the following steps should
be performed:

1)	Switch the CD to single-speed using the CD_mode call.

2)	Switch the CD to double-speed using the CD_mode call.

3)	Re-execute the CD_read call that failed.

This should make error recovery reliable under all circumstances where it is
actually possible (i.e.  the error is a "soft" error and the disc isn't
actually damaged or defective.)



Tool Updates
------------
The Jaguar Developers Kit tools and related files listed below have been
updated in the last few weeks.  You can download the latest versions from the
Atari Software Development BBS or from the Jaguar Developer library in the
Atari Gaming forum on Compuserve.

Jaguar Artwork Viewer — July 14, 1995.  This pacakge now includes a Windows
Help file with online documentation for using the program.  For the complete
package, download ARTWORK.ZIP.

Jaguar Graphics Tool — July 7, 1995.  The previous version of this archive
was missing the VBRUN300.DLL Visual Basic runtime library needed by the
program.  If you don't already have this library installed for another
programs you use, this update will fix the problem.  Download ARTWORK.ZIP.

Jaguar Cinepak Utility — July 7, 1995.  A couple of small cosmetic glitches
have been fixed.  Also the program now gives an error if the QuickTime movie
you are trying to convert does not use Cinepak for video compression.
Download JAGMAC.SEA using MacBinary on the Macintosh, or download to your PC
and use a MacBinary-intelligent utility to transfer the file to your
Macintosh.  Once you get the file to the Mac, JAGMAC.SEA is a self-extracting
archive.

WDB Debugger — June 30, 1995.  A problem was fixed where all your breakpoints
were cleared when one was reached.  Also fixed is a problem loading and
executing script files from the command line.  Download DBPC.ZIP

CD Boot Emulator — June 23, 1995.  This is the CD Boot emulator described in
the article later in this issue.  Download CDROM.ZIP.

New 3D Library — June 13, 1995.  This is a new 3D Graphics library similar to
the original Jaguar 3D library, but faster and with greater flexibility and
better documentation.  Comes with a new utility for converting Autodesk 3D
Studio object files into Jaguar 3D library format.  Download JAGLIB.ZIP for
the complete package.



CD Boot ROM Emulator For Alpine
-------------------------------
Atari now has a new CD Boot ROM emulator that loads into the Alpine board and
emulates the boot process of the Jaguar CD, loading the boot code from the CD
(or the CD emulator running on a Falcon030) and executing it in the same
fashion as if you had created a bootable CD disc.  You can even boot directly
from the CD Emulator!

The CD Boot Emulator program is available online in the CDROM.ZIP archive.
See the enclosed documentation for details about how to use it.



Developer Kit Archive Roadmap
-----------------------------
The tools, sample source code, libraries, and other components of the Jaguar
Developers Kit are updated frequently.  To keep track of what's new, see the
file ROADMAP.TXT that is posted online on the Atari Software Development BBS
and in the Jaguar Developer library in the Atari Gaming forum on Compuserve.
This file is updated and reposted whenever any of the standard distribution
archives from the Jaguar Developer's kit is updated.



If you've missed previous issues...
-----------------------------------
then it's possible that we may not have a current fax number for you.  Just
in case, please contact us with your current address, telephone and fax
numbers.  Also, consider that the better solution would be to subscribe to
the..



Jaguar Developer Weekly Via EMAIL
---------------------------------
The preferred method for Atari to send out the Jaguar Developer Weekly is via
EMAIL, but unfortunately, we don't have a database of everybody's EMAIL
addresses.  If you have a current Internet or Compuserve EMAIL address,
please send a message to mfulton@atari.com so that we can add you to the list
of developers that receive the Jaguar Developer Weekly via EMAIL instead of
fax.

What you get each week will be the ASCII text of the issue, plus an online
readable version.  We've been sending out TIF files of each page, but some
people have had problems with this, so we are investigating the possibility
of using something like Adobe Acrobat or Word Perfect Envoy to create an
online version.  Let us know what you think.



Normen is on Vacation
---------------------
Atari's Jaguar Developer Support Manager Normen Kowalewski is on vacation
until July 18.  While he is absent, please contact Mike Fulton with any
questions or problems you may have.  You may call Mike at (408) 745-8821, fax
him at (408) 745-2088, or send email to mfulton@atari.com.



New BBS Number
--------------
In order to improve reliability, the Atari Software Development BBS will be
getting a new phone line soon.  This will be a direct line that doesn't go
through the rest of Atari's phone system, so there should be fewer
noise-related connection problems.

The new number for the BBS will be (408) 541-9164.  But remember this number
is not active yet!  The number will also be posted on the BBS itself at least
a week in advance of the change, as well as in future issues of the Jaguar
Developer Weekly.

