============================================================================
Jaguar Developer Weekly            July 7, 1995                  Vol.1, No.3
============================================================================

Normen is on Vacation
---------------------
Atari's Jaguar Developer Support Manager Normen Kowalewski is on vacation
until July 18.  While he is absent, please contact Mike Fulton with any
questions or problems you may have.  You may call Mike at (408) 745-8821, fax
him at (408) 745-2088, or send email to mfulton@atari.com.



New BBS Number
--------------
In order to improve reliability, the Atari Software Development BBS will be
getting a new phone line soon.  This will be a direct line that doesn't go
through the rest of Atari's phone system, so there should be fewer
noise-related modem connection problems.

The new number for the BBS will be (408) 541-9164.  But remember this number
is not active yet!  The number will also be posted on the BBS itself at least
a week in advance of the change, as well as in future issues of the Jaguar
Developer Weekly.



Tool Updates
------------
The Jaguar Developers Kit tools and related files listed below have been
updated in the last few weeks.  You can download the latest versions from the
Atari Software Development BBS or from the Jaguar Developer library in the
Atari Gaming forum on Compuserve.

Jaguar Artwork Viewer — July 7, 1995.  This new version has a few new
features and improved transfer reliability.  Download ARTWORK.ZIP.

Jaguar Graphics Tool — July 7, 1995.  The previous version of this archive
was missing the VBRUN300.DLL Visual Basic runtime library needed by the
program.  Many people already have this library installed for other programs
they use, but in case you're one of the people that don't, this update will
fix the problem.  Download ARTWORK.ZIP.

Jaguar Cinepak Utility — July 7, 1995.  A couple of small cosmetic glitches
have been fixed and the program now displays an error message warning you if
the QuickTime movie you are trying to convert does not use Cinepak for the
video compression.  Download JAGMAC.SEA using MacBinary on the Macintosh, or
download to your PC and use a MacBinary-intelligent utility to transfer the
file to your Macintosh.  Once you get the file to the Mac, JAGMAC.SEA is a
self-extracting archive.

WDB Debugger — June 30, 1995.  A problem was fixed where all your breakpoints
being cleared when one was reached.  Also fixed is a problem loading and
executing script files from the command line.

CD Boot Emulator — June 23, 1995.  This is the CD Boot emulator described in
the article later in this issue.  Download CDROM.ZIP.

New 3D Library — June 13, 1995.  This is a new 3D Graphics library similar to
the original Jaguar 3D library, but faster and with greater flexibility.
Comes with a new utility for converting Autodesk 3D Studio object files into
Jaguar 3D library format.  Download JAGLIB.ZIP for the complete package.



MIDI Add-on Board
-----------------
After last issue's report regarding the a fix for the MIDI Add-On board, a
few of you have asked "What is a MIDI Add-On board?" In case you've missed
hearing about it before now, this is a small circuit board that attaches to
your Alpine ROMulator board.  The Alpine has a serial port that is normally
unused, but with the proper connector and the MIDI Add-on board, it can be
used as a MIDI port by the Jaguar Sound Tool so that you can preview your
MIDI music tracks directly on the Jaguar using the Jaguar Synth, allowing you
to streamline the process of fine-tuning your music for the Jaguar.

Your Alpine board may need modifications before it can be used with the MIDI
Add-on board.  For more info, please contact Jaguar Developer Support.



Developer Kit Archive Roadmap
-----------------------------
The tools, sample source code, libraries, and other components of the Jaguar
Developers Kit are updated frequently.  To keep track of what's new, see the
file ROADMAP.TXT that is posted online on the Atari Software Development BBS
and in the Jaguar Developer library in the Atari Gaming forum on Compuserve.
This file is updated and reposted whenever any of the standard distribution
archives from the Jaguar Developer's kit is updated.



CD Boot ROM Emulator For Alpine
-------------------------------
Atari now has a new CD Boot ROM emulator that loads into the Alpine board and
emulates the boot process of the Jaguar CD, loading the boot code from the CD
(or the CD emulator running on a Falcon030) and executing it in the same
fashion as if you had created a bootable CD disc.  You can even boot directly
from the CD Emulator!

The CD Boot Emulator program is available online in the CDROM.ZIP archive.
See the enclosed documentation for details about how to use it.



If you've missed previous issues...
-----------------------------------
The Jaguar Developer Weekly is been faxed out to hundreds of developers each
week.  If you've just downloaded this issue from Compuserve or the Atari
Software Development BBS, and haven't received a fax before, it's possible
that we may not have a current fax number for you.  Just in case, please
contact us with your current address, telephone and fax numbers.



Delivery Via EMAIL
------------------
Those developers who request the Jaguar Developer Weekly via the Internet
will receive a ZIP archive each week containing an ASCII text file with the
text of the issue, as well as monochrome TIF files with the exact image of
one page each.  Because we will occasionally have some graphics to go along
with the articles, simple text EMAIL alone won't work.  You can load the TIF
files into a graphics viewer to read online or print them out.  (This method
should be one that most people can handle, but if you have alternative
suggestions, please let us hear them!)

Please keep in mind that Internet mail should be faster and more reliable
than fax.  To subscribe, please send EMAIL with the text "subscribe Jaguar
Developer Weekly" to "mfulton@atari.com" and we'll add you to the EMAIL list.
Compuserve users, don't forget that you can send and receive mail via the
Internet too!  You can send a message to "Internet:mfulton@atari.com" to
subscribe!



Correction
----------
The Tool Updates articles in the two previous issues both refered to the
ARTTOOL.ZIP file when the actual filename was ARTWORK.ZIP.  We appologize for
any inconvenience this may have caused.

