=======================================================================
Jaguar Developer Weekly     September 15, 1995             Vol.1, No.13
=======================================================================

Path Specifications & The Jaguar Development Tools
--------------------------------------------------
Many of the tools in the Jaguar Developer's Kit for the MS-DOS platform
have been compiled with the GNU GCC C/C++ compiler.  Although there are
versions of GCC for most computer platforms in use today, the native
platform for GCC is UNIX, and this is reflected by the behavior of the
GCC standard C libraries.  UNIX uses a forward slash ("/") as a
directory path separator character, rather than the backslash ("\") used
by MS-DOS.  As a result, many of the Jaguar tools accept either style of
slash as valid path separator characters.

In most cases, you simply use standard MS-DOS backslashes in your
environment variables or MAKEFILEs, but there are some cases where using
a forward slash is required or preferred.  Specifically, it is
recommended that you use forward slashes for the environment variables
MACPATH and GCC_EXEC_PREFIX, as well as with the "-I" command line
switch for MADMAC.  In general, remember that both types of slashes are
used, and if you experience problems, you may be using the wrong type.



Updated Jaguar Synth & Music Driver Samples
-------------------------------------------
The three sample programs that demonstrate the use of the Jaguar Synth &
Music Driver have been updated to run more reliably and be easier to
understand.

First, the samples now use the standard Jaguar Startup Code.  Previous
versions did not contain proper startup code, which resulted in
inconsistent operation in many cases.

Second, the synthesizer patch info for each sample program was stored in
subdirectories of the main project file, but the exact layout was
different for each sample.  Now each sample's project directory contains
a single PATCHES directory which contains all of the various synthesizer
patch files required for the project.

Third, the filenames and file extensions used for the patch information
were not consistent from one sample program to the next, or even from
one patch to the next.  This has been reorganized so that the filenames
and file extensions are now consistent with each other and from program
to program.

Download the JAGSYN.ZIP archive file to get the new versions of the
sample programs.  Note also that the MUSIC.TXT file in the MUSICP.ZIP
archive has been updated to reflect the changes to the sample programs.


XMAS Season Deadlines for Jaguar Software Titles
------------------------------------------------
The production deadlines for the Christmas selling season are
approaching quickly.  Developers and publishers should keep in mind that
all cartridge-based products must be fully-tested and released into
production by October 5, and CD-based products by October 31, in order
to insure that your product is shipping in time for the Thanksgiving
sales weekend, the beginning of the Christmas selling season.  Remember
to allow at least 4 weeks for final testing.


Update To MAKETRK CD Track File Creator Utility
-----------------------------------------------
MAKETRK is designed to quickly and easily create CD Track files ready
for CD mastering or for using with the Jaguar CD Emulator.  It takes a
single file or a list of files and creates a new CD Track File with the
proper Jaguar CD track header and tailer information.  It also allows
you to specify the 4-byte code used to create the 64-byte partition
marker used to distinguish the beginning of the data from each of your
source files.

The MAKETRK utility writes out a MADMAC source code file containing a
data table with an entry for each of your original files.  Each entry
specifies the track number, block offset, length, and partition marker
for one of your source data files.  It also writes out both MADMAC and C
include files with definitions that can be used in your programs to
reference the entries in the table.

You can specify the minimum length for the track file or insert a dummy
word at the start of the file (to satisfy the requirements of some CD
Writer / Mastering software combinations).  There are many other options
as well.  See the JAGUAR\DOCS\MAKETRK.TXT file for details.

The MAKETRK utility can be obtained by downloading the
CDROM.ZIP archive available online.


Use Atari's Standard Startup Code...
------------------------------------
Developers who are not already using Atari's standard startup code with
their projects need to be aware that failure to do so may result in
their software failing to work properly on the next-generation Jaguar
machines currently in development.

Atari's standard startup code initializes the Jaguar GPU & DSP,
interrupt vectors, and other hardware in a way that is known to be safe
on current and future machines.  It displays a simple opening graphic,
and jumps to your main program code, which would display any additional
title screens, play a introductory Cinepak film, or whatever else is
appropriate for your program.

Avoid making changes to the startup code.  In most cases, the only
acceptable modification is changing the startup picture.  If you think
further modifications are required, please bring them to Atari's
attention at the earliest possible stage of development so that either
they can be approved or an alternate method found.

Atari's startup code can be found in the SOURCE.ZIP archive available
online.  After you've decompressed the archive contents, the source
files will be in the \JAGUAR\SOURCE\STARTUP directory.


And Use Our Current EEPROM Code Too!
------------------------------------
Atari supplies standard routines for accessing a Jaguar cartridge's
EEPROM to store or retrieve high score info, user preferences, etc.  If
you are not using Atari's most current version of these routines, then
your program may not function correctly with new cartridge EEPROM
hardware which will soon be used on Jaguar cartridges.

The EEPROM routines are found in the SOURCE.ZIP archive, available for
downloading online.  The latest revision is from March 14, 1995.  This
extracts to the directory \JAGUAR\SOURCE\EEPROM.


CD Debugging Scripts
--------------------
There are a couple of scripts for the DB debugger now available that are
designed to streamline the process of debugging and development of
CD-based titles.

The MAKETOC script automatically loads the CD BIOS into the Jaguar, and
then runs a program to load the current table of contents information
into memory from the current CD or emulator setup, finally, it writes
the table of contents information to a data file for future use.

The USETOC script automatically loads the CD BIOS into the Jaguar, and
then loads the table of contents data file previously created by the
MAKETOC script.

After using either MAKETOC or USETOC, the system is ready for you to
start your own program.  This is available in the CDROM.ZIP archive
available online..


New BBS Number
--------------
The Atari Software Development BBS is now running as a two line system.
The new number for both lines is (408) 541- 9164.


When Signing Onto the BBS For the First Time
--------------------------------------------
The very first time you log onto the Atari Software Development BBS, you
won't have access to the message bases or the file libraries with the
updates to the Jaguar developer kit files.  This is because the Atari
SDBBS is a closed system for developers only, and everybody who calls
must individually be given clearance before they can access these areas.

To get full access, it is imperative that you leave a detailed message
to the sysop that includes your full name, your company, telephone
number, and the name of the Jaguar project you are working on.

Failure to provide the proper information will result in your access
being delayed indefinitely.  So if you log on and leave a message that
just says something like "Hi, I'm Joe and I need access to the Jaguar
developer areas", you won't get it, because we will not have any means
of verifying who you are.  On the other hand, if you do leave the proper
information, full access should be granted within a day or two at most.


Jaguar Tool Updates
-------------------
The Jaguar Developers Kit tools and related files listed below have been
updated recently.  You can download them from the Atari Software
Development BBS or from the Jaguar Developer library in the Atari Gaming
forum on Compuserve.

Jaguar CDROM Files — September 15, 1995.  This features the newest
version of the Cinepak FILMINFO utility, the latest MAKETRK utility
(Sept.  8) as well as a new version of the CD BIOS (v4.5) as well as
some changes to the included CDROM sample reader program, and changes to
the CD Boot Emulator.  Download CDROM.ZIP

Jaguar Synth & Music Driver — September 15, 1995.  This has a few minor
corrections from the Sept.  8 version.  Download JAGSYN.ZIP.

Jaguar Library Archive — September 8, 1995.  The JAGLIB.ZIP archive has
been updated to remove the older version of the 3D Graphics Library.  If
you haven't switched to the new library yet, give it a look.  The new 3D
library and sample code are in the JAGUAR\3D directory contained in
JAGLIB.ZIP

MADMAC Macro Assembler — September 1, 1995.  New version of MADMAC
includes Bitfield definitions.  See article for details.  Download
MACALN.ZIP for the MS-DOS version, STTOOLS.ZIP for the Atari version, or
LINUX.ZIP for the PC Linux version.

DB Debugger — September 1, 1995.  New versions of WDB and RDBJAG fixes a
problem reading COF files with very long symbol names.  Download
DBPC.ZIP for the MS-DOS version, STTOOLS.ZIP for the Atari version, or
LINUX.ZIP for the PC Linux version.

FILEFIX Utility — September 1, 1995.  New version of FILEFIX changes no
longer gives an error if program does not start at $802000.  Download
UTILPC.ZIP for the MS-DOS version, STTOOLS.ZIP for the Atari version.


Dev Kit Roadmap
---------------
To keep track of recent updates to the Jaguar Developer's Kit tools,
libraries, and other components, Atari maintains the file ROADMAP.TXT.
This file is posted online and is updated at the same time any of the
standard distribution archives from the Jaguar Developer's kit are
updated.


If you've missed previous issues...
-----------------------------------
then it's possible that we may not have a current fax number for you.
Just in case, please contact us with your current address, telephone and
fax numbers.  Also, consider that the better solution would be to
subscribe to the Jaguar Developer Weekly Via EMAIL.

The preferred method for Atari to send out the Jaguar
Developer Weekly is via EMAIL, but unfortunately, we don't
have a database of everybody's EMAIL addresses.  If you have
a current Internet or Compuserve EMAIL address, please send
a message to mfulton@atari.com so that we can add you to the
list of developers that receive the Jaguar Developer Weekly
via EMAIL instead of fax.  What you get each week will be
the ASCII text of the issue, plus an online readable version
(if there are graphics to go along with any of the
articles).


Back Issues Available
---------------------
Back-issues of the Jaguar Developer Weekly are available online in the
DEVNEWS.ZIP archive.  This archive file contains text-only versions of
all of the issues since the first edition.  This archive will be updated
with new issues as they come out.





+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
| If you have comments, questions, or suggestions regarding the Jaguar |
| Developer Weekly, please call Mike Fulton at Atari Corporation at    |
| (408) 745-8821, send a fax to (408) 745-2088, or send EMAIL to       |
| "mfulton@atari.com".  To request that future issues be sent via      |
| Internet mail, please send EMAIL with the text "subscribe Jaguar     |
| Developer Weekly" along with your full name and company name to      |
| "mfulton@atari.com".                                                 |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

